All right.
NOTE CONF
Welcome to the second lecture today.
Apologies for the bumpy start with the music.
NOTE CONF
Um, just to check that your work life is working
today.
NOTE CONF
We do not have attendance, but I am taking suggestion
for the next week.
NOTE CONF
We have together for the pre lecture music that hopefully
will work a little bit better.
NOTE CONF
That will be in a few weeks.
I think week eight, if I remember correctly, will be
NOTE CONF
the next one that we will be together.
Right.
NOTE CONF
Um, I'll give you one more minute To test out
your book club very quickly.
NOTE CONF
And then?
Then we can start.
NOTE CONF
Right.
I think, uh.
NOTE CONF
This one will remain anyway.
So just as a quick recap from yesterday, we are
NOTE CONF
talking about determinants and today we will talk about how
that relates to a matrix inverse and the invertibility property
NOTE CONF
of the matrices.
Why the inverse is useful.
NOTE CONF
And how do we find inverse.
And um matrix inverses can be quite difficult.
NOTE CONF
There's a very general procedure much like the cofactor expansion
for the determinant.
NOTE CONF
And then using the structure of the matrix, we can
simplify it from time to time, and we will see
NOTE CONF
a few exercise along along that line.
So this is just what we were looking at yesterday.
NOTE CONF
This will be the program for today.
And do you have any question before we start.
NOTE CONF
No.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Okay then this is just the QR code if anyone
is not having it.
NOTE CONF
Um, okay.
Let's start by having a quick look at the determinant
NOTE CONF
once more and something we haven't touched a lot yesterday
was the matrix transpose.
NOTE CONF
So the transpose is the matrix that you obtain when
you swap rows and columns.
NOTE CONF
So in general if you have a matrix A, in
which the elements are the I, j.
NOTE CONF
Then the matrix a t will be the same matrix,
but the columns and the rows are now exchanged.
NOTE CONF
So the element that was in the ith row jth
column is now in the jth row ith column.
NOTE CONF
And that defines your new matrix.
Um so let's take to to square matrices.
NOTE CONF
And then I'm combining them um, in a fairly imaginative
way.
NOTE CONF
And my question for you is to select all of
the expressions for that determinant that are equivalent to the
NOTE CONF
one that is shown on the board.
And if you go on bookclub, uh, as you can
NOTE CONF
see, there are a few, um, a few options.
I'm going to hide them.
NOTE CONF
So you're not skewed by your by the vote of
your classmates.
NOTE CONF
and think about the properties of the determinant.
Think about how I am combining those matrices and have
NOTE CONF
a.
Think about it for a couple of minutes.
NOTE CONF
Okay, while you consider all options, let's have a look
at the content of the at the argument of that
NOTE CONF
determinant function.
So what I'm doing, I'm taking the square of A
NOTE CONF
multiplying by t, taking the transpose of the whole thing,
and then multiply the whole thing by a squared once
NOTE CONF
more.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So in order for us to get the determinant of
that big matrix that we get, and we need to
NOTE CONF
think about how the determinants propagates when we do operations
on the matrices.
NOTE CONF
And so let's go over some basic ones.
And the determinant of a product.
NOTE CONF
Is equal to.
The products of the determinants.
NOTE CONF
Absolutely correct.
And that is the first thing to keep in mind.
NOTE CONF
If we have two matrices then we can bring the
product outside of the determinant in a way.
NOTE CONF
And if we transpose a matrix.
So we swap the orders of rows and columns.
NOTE CONF
Um, do you know what happens with determinant?
Just scream it.
NOTE CONF
I'm not doing.
I'm going to ask for hands from time to time.
NOTE CONF
But otherwise you you you're free to just scream it.
Yeah, it doesn't change.
NOTE CONF
So if we have a matrix A, we take the
transpose.
NOTE CONF
The determinant doesn't care about it at all.
And if we take the inverse of the matrix, the
NOTE CONF
inverse was the the big chunk of material for the
reading for today's lecture.
NOTE CONF
Um, so what happens to the determinant.
How does that interact with taking the inverse.
NOTE CONF
It's the reciprocal yes.
Um, which are three very nice polished, uh, formulas if
NOTE CONF
you want.
Uh, the last one is particularly nice because the minus
NOTE CONF
one at the exponent just migrates out of the out
of the out of the bracket.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So these are the three properties that we want to
NOTE CONF
keep in mind.
Uh, let's have a look again at the at the
NOTE CONF
prompt that I gave you.
So we know that the transpose doesn't really care about
NOTE CONF
uh, about, uh, sorry, the determinant doesn't really care about
the transpose.
NOTE CONF
So we can basically ignore the fact that there is
a transpose down there.
NOTE CONF
So we're left with products.
And so that determinant is essentially the same as a
NOTE CONF
combination of the determinant of A to the fourth power
and the determinant of B to the one power to
NOTE CONF
the first power.
So just the determinant of B.
NOTE CONF
So let's let's have a look at the answers.
And yeah Um, you have correctly identified, for the most
NOTE CONF
part, the three that are, uh, all equivalent.
The tricky one was maybe number four because that's written
NOTE CONF
as the determinant of 80 or actually number five as
well.
NOTE CONF
But obviously the determinant of it's the determinant of a.
So that is also an acceptable and acceptable solution.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Do you have any questions about this very quick recap
NOTE CONF
of some properties of the determinant.
No okay.
NOTE CONF
Uh, so now we really start with the content of
today's lecture.
NOTE CONF
This was a warm up in some sense.
Um, because the next question that I prepared for you
NOTE CONF
is, uh, about, um, how the determinant interacts with the
invertibility properties.
NOTE CONF
Um, so we've seen that the determinant and the existence
of the inverse of a given matrix are strictly related.
NOTE CONF
And the invertibility of a matrix also has some consequences
in terms of the number of solutions in the of
NOTE CONF
the linear system that is represented by that matrix of
coefficients.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So the next exercise I prepared should be open now
NOTE CONF
on, uh, what Colab is a sort of connect the
start and the end of um, of, uh, logical, uh,
NOTE CONF
logical implication.
If a condition is true, there will be some thesis
NOTE CONF
or some consequence.
And in order for that, in order for you to
NOTE CONF
complete that, you really need to think about what what
are the relations between the determinant of a matrix, the
NOTE CONF
existence of its inverse and the numbers of solution in
the problem.
NOTE CONF
And the only thing I have to say for this
question is because there's only a limited number of combinations
NOTE CONF
I could input.
Sometimes multiple options are true.
NOTE CONF
So don't don't get too worried if one club says
that you got the wrong one.
NOTE CONF
If it still makes sense, we will go over them
together.
NOTE CONF
Okay?
As always.
NOTE CONF
Uh, consulting your neighbours is always encouraged, but not compulsory.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Let's have a look at the properties that we're looking
at.
NOTE CONF
Then I'll give you another bit of time to think
more about the the ones on bookclub specifically, but what
NOTE CONF
are the relations that we have seen?
Well, the first one connects the invertibility of a given
NOTE CONF
matrix and the existence and the number of solution of
the system.
NOTE CONF
Right.
And we say that if A is invertible, then the
NOTE CONF
system only has exactly one solution.
And the reason for that is that if a minus
NOTE CONF
one exists, right, we can multiply the system on the
left on both sides by a minus one.
NOTE CONF
When I say multiply to the left, I mean that
a is multiplied on the left hand side of both
NOTE CONF
the left hand side and the right hand side of
the equation.
NOTE CONF
So I basically swoop a a minus one in on
the left before axe and before b, and now a
NOTE CONF
minus one x is just the identity.
So identity times x.
NOTE CONF
We write explicitly our Solution as x equals a minus
one times b.
NOTE CONF
We do the matrix multiplication, assuming that we know the
inverse a minus one, and that gives us our solution
NOTE CONF
directly.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
We're just one matrix multiplication right.
And the second property, which was again in reading for
NOTE CONF
today, is that A is an invertible matrix if and
only if the determinant is different from zero.
NOTE CONF
So that goes both way.
If A has an inverse, we are sure that its
NOTE CONF
determinant is non-zero, and if we find a matrix whose
determinant is non-zero, we know that the inverse exists.
NOTE CONF
We don't know what it is, but we're sure that
it that it exists.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And then the negations also work because it's two way
NOTE CONF
if A is not invertible, then the determinant is zero.
And if we find a matrix with zero determinant we
NOTE CONF
can be sure that the that the inverse Universe matrix
does not exist.
NOTE CONF
Okay, I'll give you 30 more seconds to have a
look at the book club with this slide on.
NOTE CONF
And then I'll comment on the different, um, on the
different combinations.
NOTE CONF
Okay, let's have a look at what we have on
the left hand side of the book club.
NOTE CONF
If the determinant is zero, what do we get?
Well, the determinant is zero means that the matrix is
NOTE CONF
not invertible.
And so proposition number one up there doesn't really apply
NOTE CONF
because because proposition one only says if it's invertible then
there is a unique solution.
NOTE CONF
It doesn't contain the Invertibility property as a consequence only
as a premise okay.
NOTE CONF
So if determinant of A is equal to zero then
of course a minus one is not defined.
NOTE CONF
B would be a really silly logical implication, but hey,
it's a true one nonetheless.
NOTE CONF
If the determinant is zero, then the determinant is zero
and that's one implies c.
NOTE CONF
See.
If the determinant is zero, then a e squared.
NOTE CONF
Yes, yes it does.
It's a it's a little bit of a weird way
NOTE CONF
of saying things.
But the determinant is only defined for square matrices.
NOTE CONF
So if a matrix has a determinant it means that
it's squared.
NOTE CONF
If the determinant is zero then it's unique.
That doesn't really make any sense.
NOTE CONF
We don't really know what it's unique.
Then A is not invertible.
NOTE CONF
It's clearly wrong.
And the system has a unique solution.
NOTE CONF
Um, and then um.
Um, what about number four for example, what would you
NOTE CONF
connect with number four.
Sorry.
NOTE CONF
B I heard b omega a yeah a I yeah.
Then a to the minus one is not defined once
NOTE CONF
again.
Invertible matrices are only defined as a subset of the
NOTE CONF
square ones.
We can only calculate the inverse if the matrix is
NOTE CONF
squared.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um, let's let's see.
Uh, six would go with C for example.
NOTE CONF
Um, and with F and there are lots of combinations
in there.
NOTE CONF
Bookclub will tell you if you got one that I
inputted, but it's not limited to those anyway.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Do you have any questions about how looking at the
NOTE CONF
determinant can help you inform, uh, make an informed decision
about the inverse and the system associated with the matrix?
NOTE CONF
No.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So we have now a test to determine whether the
NOTE CONF
inverse exist.
But how do we find it?
NOTE CONF
We've seen earlier that finding the inverse is oh it's
there still.
NOTE CONF
Finding the inverse is actually really, really important.
Really convenient because it helps us solving the system in
NOTE CONF
one operation.
So the difficulty of solving this system is not in
NOTE CONF
doing this multiplication.
This is just a matrix multiplication.
NOTE CONF
So this difficulty the difficulty of finding the solution here
we'll have moved into calculating a minus one rather than
NOTE CONF
then multiplying it with b right.
So we do expect that calculating the inverse is a
NOTE CONF
somewhat tricky process.
There is some computation required roughly the same amount of
NOTE CONF
computation of solving the system, because we're essentially doing the
same thing.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And the general way in which we calculate the inverse
NOTE CONF
was in the reading for today.
So as the next exercise, I just want to give
NOTE CONF
you a few minutes.
Just like in the determinant, I don't want you to
NOTE CONF
write down the, um, the inverse, uh, overall, but try
to go through the process that you require to calculate
NOTE CONF
the inverse of this very general matrix.
This matrix has no structure.
NOTE CONF
We've seen yesterday that having all positive values is not
enough information for the structure.
NOTE CONF
It doesn't tell us anything about the determinant, the inverse
or anything.
NOTE CONF
Um, so this is a general matrix.
We need to go through the general framework.
NOTE CONF
So I'll give you 2 to 3 minutes to again
without doing all the calculations necessarily just go through the
NOTE CONF
steps that you would need to tell me what the
inverse of that matrix is.
NOTE CONF
And it's usual sort of midway through.
That's my tip.
NOTE CONF
There's two buzzwords in this tip, which is cofactors and
aggregate matrix.
NOTE CONF
Okay, let's, uh, go over the over the procedure together,
and I'll give you a very short version first, and
NOTE CONF
then we'll go through together.
We'll go together through the long version of things.
NOTE CONF
The short version is the inverse matrix is one over
two determinant times the aggregate.
NOTE CONF
And the aggregate is the matrix that has the cofactors
as the elements.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So that is the short short version of this problem.
NOTE CONF
Probably too short.
So let's go through it bit by bit as as
NOTE CONF
you've seen in the reading.
First of all, as usual, we start with two by
NOTE CONF
two matrices because they're compact convenience.
We can write down almost everything explicitly.
NOTE CONF
And if we have a matrix two by two, then
of course we need the determinant different than zero.
NOTE CONF
And the determinant is AD minus BC.
And we can see in the expression of the matrix
NOTE CONF
that why the determinant needs to be different than zero
because we divide by it.
NOTE CONF
And so if the determinant is zero that division we
can't do.
NOTE CONF
And that definition doesn't make any sense.
And I note that the content of the matrix is
NOTE CONF
the cofactor of the two by two matrix.
Right.
NOTE CONF
When you calculate the cofactor with respect to the first
and for the first column and the first row, you
NOTE CONF
eliminate the first row in the first column.
And all you get is D when you do it
NOTE CONF
for when you expand in B, you get um, you
get rid of the other ones.
NOTE CONF
And, uh, as the.
What is the proof of this?
NOTE CONF
Well, it's just a it's just a two.
It's just a two by two matrix.
NOTE CONF
So you can just do the matrix multiplication yourself and
check out that you get a i2, which is the
NOTE CONF
identity matrix of size two by two.
And uh I'm going to drop the n in further.
NOTE CONF
Uh, in in the rest of this lecture, identity will
be always of the appropriate dimension.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So this is the first step.
NOTE CONF
Uh, the next step, which is expanding to the larger
matrices, requires us to talk about the cofactors again, that
NOTE CONF
we've seen yesterday.
And as a reminder, the cofactor is defined as a
NOTE CONF
sign times the determinant of the minor matrix, where the
minus the minor matrix a ij is defined by stripping
NOTE CONF
the ith row and the jth column of the matrix
A.
NOTE CONF
And that allows us to define the aggregate matrix, which,
as I mentioned before in the very short version of
NOTE CONF
things, is just the matrix that instead of having the
elements of A, has the cofactors of A ordered in
NOTE CONF
the same way as the elements.
So cofactors of row one one goes as element one
NOTE CONF
one of the aggregate matrix.
And then what we can see is that there's this
NOTE CONF
very, very important theorem that if we multiply the matrix
A times its aggregate, it's the same if we do
NOTE CONF
it in the other direction, which is in itself interesting,
because we know that matrices in principle do not commute,
NOTE CONF
but a matrix always commute with its aggregate.
That's already interesting in itself, but the real killer deal
NOTE CONF
is the last one is the fact that when we
do the multiplication, we just get the identity matrix multiplied
NOTE CONF
by the determinant.
And that is useful because obviously then we can divide
NOTE CONF
by the determinant provided that again the determinant is zero.
As the condition of the invertibility.
NOTE CONF
And if we can divide by the determinant, then aggregate
divided.
NOTE CONF
The determinant is what multiplies a both from the left
and from the right to get the identity.
NOTE CONF
And so that will be our inverse okay, for a
general matrix, unfortunately, there is no quicker or smarter way
NOTE CONF
to get to get the the inverse than doing all
of the cofactors and dividing each of them by the
NOTE CONF
determinant and putting them in inside the matrix.
Okay, not very convenient But, uh, in absence of structure,
NOTE CONF
the best we can do anyway.
Any questions?
NOTE CONF
No.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Um.
Uh.
NOTE CONF
That's a great question.
Uh, no.
NOTE CONF
That is the transpose of that I missed.
I'll check.
NOTE CONF
I'll check it, and I'll get back to you.
I might have missed a a transpose, then.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
In the previous one.
NOTE CONF
So in the definition of this one.
So it would be one, two, one, one two going
NOTE CONF
down and two one going.
Right.
NOTE CONF
Okay I'll have a look at that.
Thank you.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Let's go back to any other questions.
NOTE CONF
No.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Let's have a look at the exercise again.
If we if you had done the entire thing just
NOTE CONF
as a quick check for you, that would be the
inverse matrix.
NOTE CONF
Um, that, uh, um, multiplies the original one to get
the inverse.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Let's go back to our work lab.
NOTE CONF
Uh, for question four.
Question four is in the format that we have seen
NOTE CONF
yesterday.
It's a bunch of statements.
NOTE CONF
And my question for you is, uh, which one are
true?
NOTE CONF
Um, and which ones I have made up.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
And they all, um, they all involve, um, determinants and
inverse, and they're, Um, and their interaction with matrices that
NOTE CONF
as you can see, some of them have some structure
and some of them don't.
NOTE CONF
I don't make any claim about their structure.
So take a couple of minutes, think about, uh, those
NOTE CONF
claims and then we'll go through them together.
Yes.
NOTE CONF
Yes, sir.
Yes.
NOTE CONF
Okay, let's have a look at the results.
Um, wait just a few more seconds so maybe we
NOTE CONF
can get to 100 people.
That'd be great.
NOTE CONF
Yep.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um, okay.
So broadly, a good majority of you agree on one
NOTE CONF
and two.
Uh, some of them think that four is.
NOTE CONF
For some of you, that would be number four.
And some of you think that six is, uh, that
NOTE CONF
four is true instead.
So the only one would be answer six.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Let's have a look at the first one.
NOTE CONF
Um, if the determinant of A is positive, then the
determinant of the inverse is also positive.
NOTE CONF
Of course that's the reciprocal.
So the reciprocal of a positive number is uh um
NOTE CONF
is a positive number.
Absolutely.
NOTE CONF
The inverse of the diagonal matrix is beautifully simple.
It's just the diagonal matrix with the entries that are
NOTE CONF
the reciprocal of the original one.
And that is however not true for the for the
NOTE CONF
triangular matrix.
So number three is in fact false.
NOTE CONF
And so both people, both the groups of answer four
and six are both good so far.
NOTE CONF
The big question is, uh, number four, if the determinant
of a smaller than one, then the determinant of a
NOTE CONF
minus one is greater than one.
And uh, because the two groups are disagreeing on that
NOTE CONF
one, I'll give you 30 more seconds to try and
convince your neighbours that they're wrong.
NOTE CONF
And you're right.
I was.
NOTE CONF
Yes.
There's a there's a good thing I hadn't thought about.
NOTE CONF
The second one might be wrong.
If the diagonal elements are zero.
NOTE CONF
Um, there's an implicit thing that I should have made
it clear that those elements are non-zero.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, that's technically correct.
Yes.
NOTE CONF
Let's, uh, let's do a raise of hands.
Uh, raise your hand if you think that number four
NOTE CONF
is true.
And raise your hand if you think the number four
NOTE CONF
is false.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
What's the problem with number four?
Yeah, I hear you're not screaming it at me, but
NOTE CONF
you're talking within yourself.
If it's negative, right?
NOTE CONF
Less than one doesn't necessarily mean between 0 and 1.
And so if the determinant is for example minus one
NOTE CONF
then the reciprocal of that would also be negative.
So that's why it doesn't work.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
That was um excellent.
NOTE CONF
And um, let's now introduce one more property in the
mix.
NOTE CONF
I think you've seen this already, but I'm going to
briefly define it for you.
NOTE CONF
And yes.
Can you explain.
NOTE CONF
Why in the previous slide why the triangular matrix or
number three was not true?
NOTE CONF
Um, it's just something I made up.
If you take, uh, if you take triangular matrices, you
NOTE CONF
will see that, uh, you, you don't get these, you
get a combination of numbers.
NOTE CONF
It's still.
It's still triangular.
NOTE CONF
We will see that.
But you don't have the same numbers below.
NOTE CONF
You have a different combination of them.
You can look it up.
NOTE CONF
It's just like a complex thing.
It's a complex combination of all the numbers.
NOTE CONF
You start with that, go here, here and here.
You can just copy the uh, under diagonal elements.
NOTE CONF
Um, the diagonal part is, is okay.
The problem is that this part here is not the
NOTE CONF
same.
So that's why it's false in general.
NOTE CONF
Um, okay.
Um, I'm sure you've seen it, but a symmetric matrix
NOTE CONF
is one in which if you swap the rows and
the columns, you get the same matrix again, if you
NOTE CONF
want to see it as a general, as a global
property of the matrix, you say like that if you
NOTE CONF
want to see it as a property of the elements,
then you say that elements ij ith row jth column
NOTE CONF
is the same as ag j through jth column.
And this is an example.
NOTE CONF
You can see that ideally if you fold the matrix
along the main the main diagonal, you end up with
NOTE CONF
the same numbers on both sides.
So this one goes with this one.
NOTE CONF
This three goes with this three, this two with this
two, and so on and so forth.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So, um, we have, uh, thrown something more in and,
NOTE CONF
uh, for the next question is how does this property
interact with symmetry?
NOTE CONF
If I have a symmetric matrix is a to the
minus one also symmetric, or is it one of those
NOTE CONF
I just make up before I come here again two
minutes discuss.
NOTE CONF
This is the second to last question today there's a
a little bit less than yesterday.
NOTE CONF
So we can take more time to think And then
we will show either a counterexample or a proof.
NOTE CONF
Okay, let's have a brief discussion.
I'm not going to close the question yet, but you
NOTE CONF
don't really have much to go about.
So sometimes when you don't know how to approach a
NOTE CONF
problem.
Also, looking at the at the answer that I'm suggesting,
NOTE CONF
the answers are always only for some and never.
Um, sometimes it's very useful to, um, have a look
NOTE CONF
and at the very simple case and think about, uh,
what that very simple case give us.
NOTE CONF
So what would be the easiest matrix for which we
can check its inverse quickly?
NOTE CONF
I to yes.
Um, any identity really, but I to in particular, what's
NOTE CONF
the inverse of the identity?
The identity is the identity symmetric.
NOTE CONF
Yes.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So we know that at least for some matrices this
property must be true.
NOTE CONF
It's not false for all matrices.
So we have already narrowed down the original three answer
NOTE CONF
to the two that you correctly recognised as the last
as the correct ones.
NOTE CONF
Uh, now the question is, does it is it true
for all?
NOTE CONF
Can we find some easy matrix to check for which
the inverse is non symmetric?
NOTE CONF
You can try, but I'm not going to let you
try because the answer is no.
NOTE CONF
This is in fact a true property.
Um I haven't made this up.
NOTE CONF
And uh I'm going to actually do a very we
can frame it as a proposition here.
NOTE CONF
Uh, let A be non-singular, invertible, then, uh, a minus
one is the transpose of, uh, the original matrix.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um, sorry, I think I misspoke.
NOTE CONF
Um, the inverse matrix is equal to its transpose.
So it's it's, uh, it's symmetric.
NOTE CONF
That's what I meant.
Okay, let's do a quick proof sketch.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Uh, first thing, um, let's let's pick up on the
NOTE CONF
equivalence that we've seen before.
A is non-singular.
NOTE CONF
So we can find the the inverse.
And actually the inverse uh, has this property multiplies to
NOTE CONF
the, uh, to the um unit matrix and to the
identity matrix, which is also equal to its transpose.
NOTE CONF
It's symmetric.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Now we can take this thing here and we can
transpose.
NOTE CONF
Right.
If two matrices are the same then if we take
NOTE CONF
the transport of both then their transpose are also the
same.
NOTE CONF
And because the identity is symmetric, the transpose of this
is actually still the identity.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And now we have a product under transposition.
NOTE CONF
And we know that the transpose of a product is
the product of the transpose where the product has been
NOTE CONF
flipped.
So we can write that down.
NOTE CONF
We we know a B transpose is BT 80.
That's what I just said.
NOTE CONF
So when I take this and I, I do it
out, I get a to the minus one t times
NOTE CONF
A transpose and that still will be equal to the
identity.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
And now we can we can simplify a because we
are assuming that A was symmetric to begin with.
NOTE CONF
So it's equal to to its transpose.
And so I can rewrite all this thing here as
NOTE CONF
this one here where I dropped this t there.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um, right now here, I say, rearranging the expression.
What I mean by that is that this thing here
NOTE CONF
is equal to I.
This one here is also equal to I.
NOTE CONF
So we can equate both sides to them.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
And why is that useful.
Well as you see now I have a I have
NOTE CONF
the, the result I want to show I have a,
a minus one equals a minus one transpose.
NOTE CONF
The only slightly annoying thing is that they're both multiplied
to the right by A, but A is invertible.
NOTE CONF
So that's not a big problem.
We can just write multiply by a minus one and
NOTE CONF
we get the identity.
And in fact that's what they do I, I put
NOTE CONF
an A minus one to the right of both sides.
This will cancel.
NOTE CONF
And what I get is exactly what I wanted to
prove.
NOTE CONF
Um, this is, uh, or like that.
And then I can simplify that and get, uh, the
NOTE CONF
inverse of a is symmetric if we suppose that A
is symmetric to begin with.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So number one was the correct one.
NOTE CONF
We can actually prove that this is true for all
invertible uh symmetric matrices okay.
NOTE CONF
And finally last question.
Much like same structure as yesterday I have collected a
NOTE CONF
few statements.
Some I just made up.
NOTE CONF
Some are actually true.
These ones because it's the last question for not only
NOTE CONF
for today, but for the week.
These ones span both yesterday and today's lecture.
NOTE CONF
So we have six minutes.
I'm going to give you three to go through them.
NOTE CONF
Some are very simple.
We've seen them explicitly yesterday, and some are a little
NOTE CONF
bit more complicated.
And then we will wrap that.
NOTE CONF
We will wrap up the the lecture by going over
each one of them independently.
NOTE CONF
And also, don't forget to vote in the book club.
Okay, 30 more seconds.
NOTE CONF
Please vote.
We only have 30 people, so far.
NOTE CONF
Okay, let's have a look.
So you seem to think that one, two and six
NOTE CONF
broadly are the are the true ones.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Let's go through each one of them one by one.
We should have time because some are very simple.
NOTE CONF
The first one a raise your hand if you think
it's true.
NOTE CONF
This is not a trick.
That's the same one as the previous one.
NOTE CONF
I haven't changed it from one side to the other.
Not intentionally, at least.
NOTE CONF
Um.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Uh, what's the problem with, uh, with this?
Right.
NOTE CONF
Um.
Unintended error.
NOTE CONF
Typo.
Sorry.
NOTE CONF
Um.
I was like, yes.
NOTE CONF
This is the correct complete one.
Uh, it should start with one.
NOTE CONF
Yes.
Of course, that escaped me.
NOTE CONF
If it started by one, then it would have been
the correct one.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um.
Good spot.
NOTE CONF
Second one.
Um.
NOTE CONF
Oh, I didn't cover it.
Um, a plus a transpose this symmetric.
NOTE CONF
And the answer is yes, of course.
And why is that the case?
NOTE CONF
Well.
Because each element of the sum is equal to the
NOTE CONF
element of the original matrix plus its symmetric one.
And so by by by taking the transpose of this
NOTE CONF
of the sum We're just swapping the transpose from one
to the other, and we get the same, the same
NOTE CONF
expression for the element.
Um, so and this one, uh, this in fact, is
NOTE CONF
called the symmetric version of a.
If you have any matrix, you can make it symmetric
NOTE CONF
by adding its transpose to it.
Um, okay.
NOTE CONF
Next up, um, if A is upper triangular then a
square to the minus one is the lower triangular.
NOTE CONF
And uh, no, this one was made up.
Uh, we know that the being upper or lower triangular
NOTE CONF
is conserved both by products and by taking the inverse.
And so, uh, taking both together, it doesn't swap the
NOTE CONF
non-zero part of the matrix.
It actually preserves it.
NOTE CONF
So it stays, uh, upper triangular.
Um, okay.
NOTE CONF
What do we have next?
Uh, this one.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
This one.
NOTE CONF
Uh.
Um, okay.
NOTE CONF
This one is, uh.
What's the problem with this one?
NOTE CONF
I'm pointing at it.
It's non-zero.
NOTE CONF
Yes.
And this one is probably the most important result.
NOTE CONF
Um, I said try to remember this.
Try to remember the correct version.
NOTE CONF
Not.
Not this one, obviously, but, um, calculating the determinant we've
NOTE CONF
seen yesterday can be a little bit of a pain.
But compared to actually finding the inverse matrix is much
NOTE CONF
simpler, especially when there's a bit of structure sprinkled into
the matrix.
NOTE CONF
So very important, very important result.
Uh, probably the one thing I would like you to
NOTE CONF
take home if you don't take home anything else from
this week and, uh.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Next up, um, this property here.
NOTE CONF
No, that doesn't work.
That works for transposed, but in general, it's false.
NOTE CONF
Um, can you think of two matrices a b for
this?
NOTE CONF
One is true when I say in general is false,
I mean that the there are some matrices for which
NOTE CONF
it's false.
But of course it may still be true for a
NOTE CONF
few ones.
Anyone?
NOTE CONF
Two identities?
Yes.
NOTE CONF
Of course.
Um, okay.
NOTE CONF
And as I mentioned, it works for transposing.
Not not inverting.
NOTE CONF
And then finally, um, if the determinant is different than
zero, we can do that.
NOTE CONF
And that is the other very important result that we've
seen today.
NOTE CONF
So um, this one was also true.
So, uh, well done to all of you.
NOTE CONF
And also as an organisational point, I have tried to
change the, uh, actually, this one doesn't.
NOTE CONF